[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: Okay, so let's talk
a little bit about style deliverables.
We've been doing creating something now
for a few months called a style prototype.
Which actually has, probably even more so
than that the content priority prototype
has change the way we work, too.
Anybody familiar with style tiles?
Samantha Warren's sort of moodboard for
the web is I think is
kind of how she calls it.
Anyway, style tiles
are the same concept but
it's done in Photoshop and presented to
the user as a picture, a static image.
So what we've been doing is,
we've been actually,
we've got sort of a single common markup,
common document.
No real content in it.
It's literally just some simple,
very simple items and
it's the combination that we can use for
anybody's style prototype.
We run this part of our process in tandem
with prioritization deliverables, okay?
We're kind of split into two roads and
were running a couple of things at once,
making progress here.
Incredibly fast to build these things.
We're not designing a comp, okay?
All we're doing is getting some concepts
down in the browser, some concepts
down that would indicate colors and
textures, maybe some styles for links.
You can show real web typography.
And again, this is the deliverable
that they get a link to, okay?
Okay, they're gonna open it
in whatever browser they use.
So if they're using old IE and
you wanna have rounded corners and
you wanna use CSS to round those corners.
That customer is gonna open
it up in their browser and
they're gonna see it without
those rounded corners.
And now you don't have to have
a conversation with them about
the picture of rounded corners
that you showed them before.
And why it doesn't work in their browser.
They're seeing it, their expectations
are already established.
So there's some real benefits to this.
Incredibly easy to show web interaction.
I mean how many times are you trying
to do that crap in Photoshop, and
like exploiting multiple images to show
what color something changes
at a different state.
I mean that's just doesn't, that's a pain.
You can just do it in the browser.
It's really simple to do those things.
Literally, I can sit with
a client in our conversation
with a style pro prototype on
the projector and get their feedback.
And in real time,
just make some changes to it.
I mean it's happened so fast and
we get through a lot of the challenging
conversations about their preferences for
style early in the process.
And then we'll get into more
detailed comps in designing in and
we'll talk a lot about how we do that,
but the thing is we don't miss later.
We get it right because we've already had
some of those interesting conversations
about what their preferences are.
These things we can build
in less than a day.
I mean it's so simple and
we may do one or two of these.
We may make some modifications to one.
But literally in a couple days time,
we can have a really solid direction
on where we're headed with the with
the visual side of the site.
So let's take a look at a couple these.
Actually, I wanna show you, so
we are gonna show you a couple of ours.
One for our old site the see
sparkbox.com that's out there now and
one for the Dress Responsibly.
Yeah, for another one of our ideas.
And then I'm gonna show you what has
started cropping up all over the web and
a handful of other people who are doing
something kind of like this, okay?
>> Ben Callahan: So this is an example
of a style prototype, okay?
This is this was built for
our site, sparkbox.com.
You can kinda see we're indicating some
of these big bold kinds of headlines,
full width kind of bleeding
black color bars or black bars.
You can see it's responsive in nature,
but it's just very simply responsive.
We're not doing anything crazy here.
What we're starting to imply to our
users or our clients, that they can.
Actually, like if CEO, or whatever,
gets the thing on his Blackberry,
he can open this up and
look at it on his phone.
He can look at it.
And it's really nice because we can
start those conversations about
trying to build stuff that works
regardless of the view port with.
We've we're showing some iconography,
some hover states,
some of the illustrations style.
Our side is a little bit quirky and so
this kind of indicated some of
those things, really simple right.
You can imagine that this doesn't take
long to build especially after you've
built a dozen of them.
You're really just going in and
kind of changing some colors.
You've already got some of
the responsiveness in there.
It's very simple to do.
Here's another one for
the Dress Responsively project, okay?
Same kind of thing.
Again, indicating some of
the responsiveness here and
starting to see a little tags that hang,
some typography.
This is web type.
So we can show them what this type is
gonna look like in their browser, right?
Pretty simple.
Now Steve Fisher is a buddy of mine.
He works at Yellow Pencil and
I saw him tweet this a few months back.
This is sort of maybe combination of
the two things that we just
that we just talked about.
This is one of his deliverables.
It's sort of a priority.
I don't think he's
implying style with this,
but you can see he's doing
the same kinds of things.
This is more of like an interactive
wireframe is kind of what this is, right?
You'll also notice that
he's got these little guys.
So he's kind of worked in.
What he's found I think probably from his
previous version of this was probably done
statically and like Illustrator or
Keynote or some wireframing too.
And they probably had a section where
you could kinda indicate something and
provide some notes about those elements,
right?
So he's built that in with
a sort of a modal system here.
Pretty simple, main navigation,
a simple one level bubble block, okay?
Pretty cool.
Again, what this is doing is
trying to get into the browser,
using the actual medium that
we're gonna be delivering in.
So this isn't throwaway stuff.
And you use something like
Bootstrap if you want.
Just some framework to just to kind
of quickly get things laid out.
Here's Brad Frost's version.
Same kind of thing.
Brad's a great guy.
This feels a bit too designed to me.
I feel like, again,
this is sort of that mentality of we
feel like we need to keep getting closer
and closer to that final deliverable.
And really what we should be doing is
identifying the earlier the process
the design preferences and
style preferences and then also priority.
But he's got this idea of
annotation they're turned off here.
And if I turn them on, I start to get
this little it's hard to see probably for
you guys but
that little question mark icon.
And I can click things and
it pops up a little annotation
about the element that I clicked.
So same kind of idea trying to
sort of help a user understand
some of the things that are important
these resolutions in terms of priority.
Again, it's responsive, works pretty well.
He's demonstrating how the nab might work.
Really cool.
>> Ben Callahan: And
then Dan Mall just, he and
his team are doing a public redesign
right now of an organization.
That's intended to help with reading.
And so this is something he
just put out the other day.
This is sort of their design round two,
okay?
You can see the URL up there.
All these will be in the slides, too,
these links, so you can play with them.
But he's kind of taken
time to really design out
a deliverable here that's
being viewed in the browser.
But a lot of this stuff
is just sort of static.
But you can see, it's he's trying
to indicate how type might look.
A couple different options for typefaces.
I mean, it's very nice design,
a nice concept.
Again, this feels like this could
take a lot of time to build this.
And in this context, it's really sort
of static, it's pictures of a website.
So it's interesting.
The further down you go even
starts to show some websites
literally in this is more like a moodboard
on the web it's kind of what this is.
So anyway some pretty cool.
Pretty cool deliverables
that are starting to pop up.
>> Ben Callahan: Questions
about any of those concepts?
>> Ben Callahan: So
I'll pop through these quickly.
So a couple articles for you guys on this.
My Creative Director Jeremy Lloyd
wrote this a month or two back.
Called Our New Responsive Web Design
Deliverable The Style Prototype.
This goes into much,
much greater detail on this,
on the subject of style prototype,
our specific implementation.
It's out on our blog The Foundry.
And then, my buddy Matt Griffin at Bearded
in Pittsburgh wrote this recently on
a list a part called Responsive Comping
Obtaining Signoff without Mockups.
This is a really good article.
I mean go read this if
you haven't read it yet.
He goes into really great detail
on the process they use to
avoid doing all of their
design straight in Photoshop.
And what he says and
what we've kind of started to see as well
is that we're not ditching Photoshop.
I mean we still use Photoshop or
whatever design tool your preference is.
But we're just finding that
it's necessary to use Photoshop
almost more as a scratchpad for
getting some of these textures and
getting some of these elements created.
And then pulling those in as quickly as
we can into the browser into the actual
medium that we're going
to be delivering in.
The big takeaway here is you cannot
throw the stuff over the wall
anymore, all right?
We literally have I mean
collaboration is key for us.
We, like I said,
we have content people writing markup.
They are sitting with content
management backend devs and
trying to figure out what a good
architecture for that would be.
We take the idea of sort
of pair programming.
But we apply it across our organization,
so that we have designers in
front end sitting together.
UX people in front-end dev sitting
together and really trying to solve these
problems and thinking from a planning
perspective throughout the process.
Those are the kind of things
that I think are necessary for
us to build good experiences
across resolutions.
>> Speaker 2: I have a quick question.
>> Ben Callahan: Yeah, what's up?
>> Speaker 2: If you're showing this stuff
in the browser to the client this early,
are you running into a situation with
the client where they expecting you to be
further along than you actually are and
much closer to a final deliverable?
>> Ben Callahan: Yeah,
that's a good question.
He asked, if we're finding that
because we're showing these things
in the browser early in the process,
they're expecting us to be further along.
It's funny because this all has to come
with some sort of client education.
And so what happens a lot of times
if we're answering a request for
a proposal or something is they dictate
out the process they expect to be used.
They're reading great literature that
was written maybe two years ago.
But it was before responsive
came on the scene.
And so the things that they're
saying a really good things.
But we try and meet, before I even spend
time writing an estimate for somebody,
I have a conversation
with them where I say,
listen, our process is
a little bit different.
And in the end,
it generates really good results, but
you're gonna have to
trust me through this.
Is that something that you're open to?
And so, those are the kind
of conversations I have.
And to be honest, you notice I didn't put
a big process diagram up here, right?
Because every project is different.
I could throw some really general buckets
up here, but that's not how it works.
Our medium is too flexible, too dynamic.
The needs of our customers are so
different.
And so
we just take the appropriate deliverables
from our part of the pile of options.
And we think we say okay this is
gonna be what would really help
them to understand what's next for
their site.
And we try to pick and choose those so
that we kind of in the end
have a really good experience.
And I'm also constantly talking
to our clients about users
always saying to them if
they push back on something.
I'll say you know what,
I appreciate that you like that color or
whatever or you want your logo
to be bigger or whatever.
But let's talk about
the usability of this thing.
Cuz to be honest with you, I don't really
care that your favorite color is green.
What I wanna know is what's gonna work for
your clients?
And that's, I mean that's that simple.
A client,
a smart customer of mine gets that.
And so that simple conversation
happens once or twice, and
then they start to get it.
But you definitely have to find
sort of forward thinking folks.
So especially if they've
been around the block.
They've built a few sites all ready and
they're very used to the process, yeah.
So other questions on process?
Okay, I didn't wanna spend
too much time here, but
I do think it's really relevant for
us to cover some of these things.
And then the final point the smaller
you get in terms of the viewport or
the resolution of the of
the browsing device.
The more important priority becomes and
the fewer ways you have to
communicate priority, right?
I don't have the ability to sort of set
things out in a nice wide area, but
make one in the top right really bold and
important and different colors.
I don't have that ability if I'm
severely limited on the viewport.
So you have to start to think about
ways to reserve screen real estate,
you know, vertically.
That's one the biggest challenges I see.
We'll take a look at some of
those issues a little later on.
Content priority prototype, style
prototype, these are just a couple ways
that you can start to to get your
customers into the browser quicker.
Get your work into the browser sooner.
And I think that they they've actually
dramatically changed the way we
build sites so any other questions?
Okay.